#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict true
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
About the Author
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
"Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

And sorry I could not travel both
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

And be one traveler, long I stood
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

And looked down one as far as I could
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

To where it bent in the undergrowth"
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

- Robert Frost, “The Road Not Taken” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once upon a time, in a land we'll call, for want of a better name, Camelot,
 there was a young man who, for want of a better name, we'll call Maurice.
 He was all of 17, a sophomore - almost a junior - in college.
 He had entered college at 16, originally planning to become a biochemist
 like his father.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The theory of chemistry was easy for him, but he was a complete klutz in
 the lab.
 By the time the last day to drop out of Organic Chemistry had arrived,
 he had scored near perfect marks on homework assignments and exams but
 was many days behind in the lab assignments.
 It was clear he would never be a biochemist and he dropped the course.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The two roads that diverged in that yellow wood were mathematics and journalism.
 And he made a deal with himself.
 He would take a math course and a journalism course, and whichever one
 gave him a better grade would be his life's work.
 At the end of the semester, math had yielded an A and journalism a B.
 Mathematics it was.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even so, the theory of mathematics wasn't all that interesting to him.
 Teaching didn't appeal to him - he was a researcher like his father.
 Proving theorems and exploring highly abstract concepts seemed like the
 wrong path for a young man with ideals and a desire to change the world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the world itself was changing.
 Three technologies - nuclear energy, space flight and computers - were
 emerging into full-fledged industries.
 Writers, both fiction and non-fiction, speculated on worlds utopian and
 dystopian in which computers would replace humans.
 Our protagonist decided that he should know as much as possible about computers
, in order to survive in the world to come.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He took a programming course, along with two dozen other undergraduates.
 The first day, the instructor told the class how difficult programming
 was.
 “Probably no more than four of you will pass this course, and only one
 will get an A.
 This is hard.
 Not everyone can do it.
 If you get to the point where you discover it is not for you, it's OK to
 drop out.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The class was taught on a computer patterned after John Von Neumann's design,
 made of vacuum tubes.
 Yes, the discipline of programming is hard, but the instructor had exaggerated
 slightly.
 By the end of the semester, six students had passed and all of them had
 earned an A.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You surely know by now that Maurice was one of the survivors.
 What you may not know is how incredibly easy programming was for him, and
 that within hours of his first successful program run, early in his senior
 year and late in his 19th year of life, he had discovered what he was put
 on Earth to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And he knew he would one day own a computer and use it to compose and synthesize
 music.
 He never dreamed that computers would become commonplace household appliances.
 After all, computers were expensive and programming was hard.
 And he never even imagined that machines thousands of times more powerful
 than Von Neumann's would be found in pockets and purses, connected wirelessly
 by a global network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He graduated the next summer at 19 with a Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics
 and a skill few people possessed at the time.
 It was also a skill highly prized, and rather than continue in academia,
 he went to work in industry, at a company we will call, for want of a better
 name, IBM.
 Eventually he would work in the nuclear energy and space flight industries
 as well, but most of his career was spent in the industry that would become
 known as Information Technology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He was known by many titles - programmer, analyst, computer scientist, real-time
 operating system programmer, applied mathematician, software engineer.
 But through it all, there were two currents: the logic of programming,
 and scientific computing - solving complex systems of equations that define
 mathematical models of the real world.
 If this sounds like "data science", well, it is, but they didn't call it
 that in those days.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And what of the road not taken, journalism? That's what he does now, specificall
y technology blogging and computational journalism.
 He collects and distributes open source tools, builds more tools, and researche
s the data, metrics and mathematical models that incorporate themselves
 into our lives.
 And he marvels at the things that have come to pass, both utopian and dystopian
, since John Von Neumann, his colleagues and contemporaries devised the
 first stored-program computers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Computational journalism is a discipline that brings developers and storytellers
 together.
 Maurice is more of a developer than a storyteller, to be sure, but he believes
 that both disciplines are vital to steer civilization between the utopias
 and dystopias technology confronts us with on a daily basis in the second
 decade of the twenty-first century.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Von Neumann wrought his creations in wartime, as did Turing and Zuse.
 The modern computer was born as an instrument of war, as was the Internet.
 And like space flight and nuclear energy, the computer and the Internet
 have only imperfectly been beaten into plowshares.
 We live, for example, in a world where anarchists have discovered ways
 to disrupt our online lives for their own amusement.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Maurice is too young to be an historian and too old to be a futurist.
 His hope is that today's developers and storytellers will record the history
 and define the future with the tools he collects, uses and distributes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
"I shall be telling this with a sigh
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Somewhere ages and ages hence:
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

I took the one less traveled by,
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 And that has made all the difference." 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Robert Frost, “The Road Not Taken”
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
