#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict true
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
About the Book
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
"There are three kinds of men.
 The one that learns by reading.
 The few who learn by observation.
 The rest of them have to pee on the electric fence for themselves." - Will
 Rogers 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have two intended audiences for this book, both, of course, the ones who
 learn by reading.
 One is developers and the other is journalists.
 Computational journalism is an emerging discipline that merges computer
 science and storytelling.
 As Cohen, Hamilton and Turner put it:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
"Here, we focus on an aspect of computational journalism with a particularly
 powerful potential impact on the public good: tools to support accountability
 reporting.
 Building on the experience of an earlier generation of computer-assisted
 reporting, journalists and computer scientists are developing new ways
 to reduce the cost and difficulty of in-depth public-affairs reporting.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "CHT2011"

\end_inset

)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Journalists today work in a world dominated by two trends:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Real-time many-to-many communications platforms, and
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Large sets of complex data with stories waiting to be told.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open source software is well-known for its low cost.
 Functionality that would cost thousands of dollars in commercial licenses
 is available for the cost of a download, and there are thousands of web
 sites with free tutorials on how to use the major tool sets.
 But I think the more important characteristic of open source software is
 its robustness.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open source software projects like R and Linux are crafted by highly-motivated
 self-regulated world-wide communities of experts.
 Security flaws, functionality defects and performance issues are rapidly
 found and fixed.
 And this peer review process yields software that is usually more efficient
 than commercial counterparts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a wide variety of open source tools used in computational and
 data journalism, but I'll be writing about the ones I know best, the R
 programming language and Linux.
 As with most books here at Leanpub, this is a work in progress.
 You can get a glimpse of the tools and areas I'll be covering by visiting
 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "my blog"
target "http://borasky-research.net"

\end_inset

, or by downloading my 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "Computational Journalism Server"
target "http://j.mp/compjournoserver"

\end_inset

 appliance.
 If you want to watch me think in real time, start with 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "Computational and Data Journalism on Scoop.it"
target "http://www.scoop.it/t/computational-and-data-journalism"

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "my Github page"
target "http://github.com/znmeb"

\end_inset

, or
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "send me a tweet"
target "http://twitter.com/znmeb"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
